We can also assign directly
to properties of arrays and
objects the same way that we
assign to free variables.
So another way that we could do this is
numbers[numbers.length] =
numbers.length + 1.
And that works exactly
how you would expect.
At some point,
when you're building an application,
you're gonna need to parse data
from one component to another.
And for that,
we use something called a prop.
A prop is basically an attribute on
an element, and it stands for properties.
So here we have some state inside
the nested component answer, and
we're showing it inside this paragraph
tag, and it's coming across as undefined.
Even though we're parsing it through
from here, nested answer = 42.
And the reason for that is that as far
as the nested component is concerned,
this is private state that nothing
else gets to interfere with.
What we need to do is tell svelte
the answer should be considered a property
that can be set by a parent component.
And the way that we do that is again by
abusing some existing JavaScript syntax,
we're gonna use the export keyword.
This tells svelte that if
the parent sets a value for this,
we just parse it through.
And obviously if we change that,
it'll update in the manner that you would
expect, so
there's a little caveat now here.
This might seem a little bit
weird if you're used to using
the export keyword in
your JavaScript modules.
Again, it has to be syntactically valid.
And this is a really convenient way of
using something that's in the language
that we weren't otherwise gonna be
using to fulfill a purpose that would
otherwise be very difficult and awkward.
So just kind of roll with it for now and
it'll soon become second nature.
So we can set a default value for
answer, like so.
And then if the parent component
doesn't provide a value for that prop,
then it'll fall back to the default.
First answer is 42, the second
answer is determined by the child.
And finally, in the prop section,
we have the concept of spread props.
Sometimes you have
a bundle of properties and
you wanna parse them all
through to component.
In some situations, you might not
know what is gonna be in that object.
And you don't, like you physically unable
to say A equals A, B equals B, C equals D,
because you don't know whether it's gonna
be A, B, C, D, E, or P, Q, R, S, T.
So we use the spread syntax
which looks like this.
I'm just gonna get rid of all of
these individual properties and
parse them through like so,
dot, dot, dot, pkg.
And then it passes through the information
exactly the same way that you
would expect.
And inside here,
we're exporting all of the properties of
that spread objects as individual props.
So nothing needs to change
inside the child component.